sein, war, gewesen-to be
haben, hatte, gehabt-to have; to contain
können, konnte, gekonnt-can; to be able to
werden, wurde, geworden-will; to be done (passive voice); to become
wissen, wusste, gewusst-to know; to be aware of
wollen-to want
müssen, musste, gemusst-must; to have to; to be obliged (to do sth.)
machen-to make; to prepare (e.g. food); to do
tun, tat, getan-to do; to do sth. to so.
sagen-to say; to tell
gehen, ging, gegangen-to go; to leave; to work, to function (coll.)
sehen, sah, gesehen-to see; to see (to sth.); to realise
geben, gab, gegeben-to give
sollen-should; to be asked (to do sth.); they say that
meinen-to be of the opinion; to mean
kommen, kam, gekommen-to come; to make it (e.g. over sth.); to go to; to occur
lassen, ließ, gelassen-to let; to stop (sth.)
glauben-to believe; to think
passieren-to happen; to move beyond; to strain
reden-to speak; to talk
mögen-to like; may; to be hesitant to do sth. (in negation with inf.)
hören-to hear; to listen to
helfen, half, geholfen-to help (so.)
finden, fand, gefunden-to find
bleiben, blieb, geblieben-to remain; to stay; to be (implying tardiness)
brauchen-to need
lieben-to love
bringen, brachte, gebracht-to bring; to take; to lead
stehen, stand, gestanden-to stand; to be, to appear
heißen, hieß, geheißen-to be called; to mean
nehmen, nahm, genommen-to take; to cause oneself to be (in some state)
sprechen, sprach, gesprochen-to speak
sterben, starb, gestorben-to die
töten-to kill
bekommen, bekam, bekommen-to receive; to catch (e.g. a cold); to sit well with so.
vergessen, vergaß, vergessen-to forget; to leave (forget to take)
halten, hielt, gehalten-to hold; to stop; to support; to keep
warten-to wait; to maintain (e.g. a car)
kennen, kannte, gekannt-to know; to be acquainted with; to be familiar with
verstehen, verstand, verstanden-to understand; to get along with so./sth.
denken, dachte, gedacht-to think; to consider
leben-to live; to reside
stimmen-to be true (usu. "stimmt"); to vote; to tune
verlieren, verlor, verloren-to lose
dürfen, durfte, gedurft-to be allowed (to do sth.); may
arbeiten-to work
essen, aß, gegessen-to eat
spielen-to play
liegen, lag, gelegen-to lie; to be located
fahren, fuhr, gefahren-to go (by vehicle); to leave; to drive
versuchen-to try
erzählen-to tell; to narrate
bedeuten-to mean; to signify
fragen-to ask; to wonder (refl.)
bestimmen-to determine
treffen, traf, getroffen-to meet; to encounter
hoffen-to hope
suchen-to seek; to search
verlassen, verließ, verlassen-to leave; to trust with sth. (refl.); to pass away, to die
zeigen-to point at; to demonstrate
kriegen-to get; to come down with
holen-to fetch
gefallen, gefiel, gefallen-to please; to appeal to
retten-to save; to rescue
scheinen, schien, geschienen-to seem; to shine
schlafen, schlief, geschlafen-to sleep
lernen-to learn; to study (revise/review materials); to train sth.
trinken, trank, getrunken-to drink
schaffen, schuf, geschaffen-to create; to produce
funktionieren-to work, function
wehtun, tat weh, wehgetan-to hurt
stellen-to pose (a question); to position; to put; to catch
nennen, nannte, gennant-to name; to mention
laufen, lief, gelaufen-to walk; to flow (of a fluid); to run (of an event)
fühlen-to feel; to feel sth. (good/bad) (refl.)
erinnern-to remind; to remember (refl.)
kämpfen-to fight, to struggle
heiraten-to marry
erklären-to explain; to declare; to assert
sitzen, saß, gesessen-to sit; to stay; to fit (of clothing)
tragen, trug, getragen-to carry; to hold; to wear (clothing)
kaufen-to buy
hassen-to hate
umbringen, brachte um, umgebracht-to kill, to murder; to be very angry at so.
kümmern-to take care (refl.); to trouble, to concern
verletzen-to hurt, to injure; to violate (rules, laws, etc.)
interessieren (für)-to interest; to be interested in (refl. with für)
ziehen, zog, gezogen-to pull; to drag; to move
anrufen, rief an, angerufen-to call by telephone; to call on (so., e.g. a divine being)
aufhören-to stop
vorstellen-to move forward; to represent; to introduce
verschwinden, verschwand, verschwunden-to disappear; to get lost
erwarten-to expect; to await
führen-to lead
anfangen, fing an, angefangen-to begin
geschehen, geschieht, geschehen-to occur; to happen
gewinnen, gewann, gewonnen-to win
klingen, klang, geklungen-to sound
setzen-to set; to sit down (refl.)
benutzen-to use
fallen, fiel, gefallen-to fall; to fall in battle; to collapse
schicken-to send
fliegen, flog, geflogen-to fly
erfahren, erfuhr, erfahren-to experience
bezahlen-to pay
schreiben, schrieb, geschrieben-to write
schätzen-to guess; to evaluate; to appreciate
bitten, bat, gebeten-to ask, to request
lesen, las, gelesen-to read
behalten, behielt, behalten-to keep
verkaufen-to sell
verdienen-to earn
wünschen-to wish
verheiraten-to marry (to perform the marriage); to get married (refl.)
verdammen-to condemn; to damn
stecken, stak, gesteckt-to stick; to pin
passen-to fit; to suit
schlagen, schlug, geschlagen-to hit; to defeat; to beat (cooking)
verändern-to alter; to change
folgen-to follow
ansehen. sah an, angesehen-to look at
zerstören-to destroy
entschuldigen-to excuse; to apologise
schießen, schoss, geschossen-to shoot
beschützen-to protect
stehlen, stahl, gestohlen-to steal
bewegen-to move
erwischen-to catch so./sth.; to catch so. unprepared
vertrauen-to trust
erreichen-to reach
versprechen, versprach, versprochen-to promise; to hope for; to misspeak
erledigen-to finish; to take care of
drehen-to turn; to veer
schwören, schwor, geschworen-to swear; to take an oath
aussehen, sah aus, ausgesehen-to appear, to look (like)
verlieben-to fall in love (refl.)
verraten, verriet, verraten-to betray; to reveal
gebären, gebar, geboren-to give birth
aufhalten, hielt auf, aufgehalten-to halt; to stay (in a place)
dauern-to last; to take (time)
verstecken-to hide
fangen, fing, gefangen-to catch
beschäftigen-to concern oneself with sth. (usu. "beschäftigt")
tanzen-to dance
fehlen-to lack; to be absent
öffnen-to open
entscheiden, entschied, entschieden-to decide
entfernen-to remove; to recede; to deviate; to desert (military)
gehören-to belong
zahlen-to pay (for sth.); to atone for
legen-to lay; to lean; to lie down
erhalten, erhielt, erhalten-to maintan; to receive; to save
sorgen-to care; to worry
schauen-to look at sth.
lachen-to laugh
beweisen, bewies, bewiesen-to prove
herausfinden, findet heraus, herausgefunden-to find sth. out
fürchten-to fear; to be afraid
beginnen, begann, begonnen-to begin
überraschen-to surprise
singen, sang, gesungen-to sing
besorgen-to obtain; to manage
besuchen-to visit
ändern-to change
mitnehmen, nahm mit, mitgenommen-to carry along; to pick up; to take away
rufen, rief, gerufen-to call out; to telephone
leisten-to perform; to afford (refl.)
entkommen, entkam, entkommen-to escape
vermissen-to miss sth./so.; to have sth. missing
hängen, hing, gehangen-to hang; to be fond of; depend on
werfen, warf, geworfen-to throw
überleben-to survive
wetten-to bet
erkennen, erkannte, erkannt-to recognise; to realise
wohnen-to live, to reside, to dwell
schreiten, schrittt, geschritten-to stride; to step; to proceed
teilen-to split, to share; to divide
erschießen, erschoss, erschossen-to shoot dead
übernehmen, ubernahm, ubernommen-to take over
danken-to thank
bauen-to build: to roll a joint
schützen-to defend; to protect
beenden-to finish, to complete; to terminate
verpassen-to miss (to be late for sth., e.g. a train)
fassen-to grasp
verhaften-to detain, to take into custody
feieren-to celebrate
unterhalten, unterhielt, unhterhalten-to maintain; to entertain; to converse (refl.)
aufpassen-to watch out; to look after something; to be attentive with sth.
mitbringen, bracht mit, mitgebracht-to bring along, to bring with
melden-to report
bestehen, bestand, bestanden-to succeed, to pass (an exam); to consist (aus ("of")); to exist; to insist (auf ("on"))
planen-to plan
betrinken, betrank, betrunken-to get drunk (refl.)
brechen, brach, gebrochen-to break
antun, tat an, angetan-to do something to someone; to appeal to someone
mitkommen, kam mit, mitgekommen-to come with so., to understand sth.
nachdenken, dachte nach, nachgedacht-to think, to reflect
ermorden-to murder
leiden, litt, gelitten-to bear, to endure, to suffer
freuen-to make glad; to be glad (über sth.) (refl.); to look forward (auf sth.) (refl.)
aufgeben, gab auf, aufgegeben-to give up on; to give up (refl.); to abandon
verbringen, verbrachte, verbracht-to spend (time)
verfolgen-to pursue; to persecute; to trace
bermerken-to notice
schließen, schloss, geschlossen-to shut; to close; to lock; to conclude
weinen-to weep, cry
küssen-to kiss; to make out
behandeln-to treat (medicinally); to treat (physically); to cover (a subject)
entdecken-to discover, to spot
treten, trat, getreten-to step; to read; to kick (a ball)
lauten-to sound; to read (have a certain wording)
hingehen, ging hin, hingegangen-to go (there); (of time) to pass
feuern-to fire (a weapon); to fire (terminate employment)
gebrauchen-to use
verhindern-to prevent, to inhibit
erwähnen-to mention (to speak of something)
erlauben-to permit (with dative)
einladen, lädt ein, eingeladen-to invite; to load (something into a container)
angreifen, griff an, angegriffen-to attack
zulassen, ließ zu, zugelassen-to allow; to license (for a car)
lügen, log, gelogen-to lie; to give false information (unintentionally)
verlangen-to ask for, demand
lösen-to loosen; to separate; to remove; to solve
vorbereiten-to prepare
überprüfen-to check
stören-to disturb, to interfere
kontrollieren-to control; to check
gelten, galt, gegolten-to be valid; to be effective; to be worth
zurückkommen, kam zurück, zurückgekommen-to return (to come back)
hinterlassen, hinterließ, hinterlassen-to leave; to leave behind; to bequeath
jagen-to hunt
enden-to end
irren-to err
merken-to notice; to remember (refl.); to realise
abholen-to collect, pick up so. or sth.
stoppen-to stop
schreien, schrie, geschrieen-to shout; to yell; to scream
klauen-to steal
entführen-to abduct, to kidnap
überlegen-to think, to think over
reparieren-to repair
ausgehen, ging aus, ausgegangen-to go out; to run out (e.g. of money)
überzeugen-to convince; to convince oneself (refl.)
erwachsen, erwuchs, erwachsen-to grow up; to spring up; to accrue
annehmen, nahm an, angenommen-to assume; to receive; to accept
zählen-to count
vergeben, vergab, vergeben-to set (work); to forgive; to assign
landen-to land (a plane)
trennen-to separate, part, uncouple; to disonnect; to isolate
verbinden, verband, verbunden-to join, to connect; to bandage
springen, sprang, gesprungen-to spring; to jump
fliehen, floh, geflohen-to flee; to diverge
aufnehmen, nahm auf, aufgenommen-to pick up; to receive; to take in; to record
verursachen-to cause
trauen-to trust; to marry; to dare (refl.)
klappen-to clap; to fold; to work (out) (coll.)
umgehen, umging, umgangen-to avoid, to go around
wählen-to choose; to dial (a number); to vote
existieren-to exist
unternehmen, unternahm, unternommen-to undertake
befinden, befand, befunden-to be located (refl.); to find, to consider (formal)
weitermachen-go on, keep gooing, continue to do something
rauchen-to smoke (e.g. a cigarete)
aufregen-to annoy, to upset (refl.)
entlassen, entließ, entlassen-to release (a prisoner or patient); to dismiss (from a job)
entwickeln-to develop
beobachten-to watch, to observe
raten, riet, geraten-to advise; to recommend; to guess
geraten, geriet, geraten-to turn out, succed; to thrive
besprechen, besprach, besprochen-to discuss
verbieten, verbot, verboten-to forbid, to prohibit (with dative)
angehen, ging an, angegangen-to conern; to tackle (a problem); to turn on (a machine)
kapieren-to understand intellectually (coll.); to get (coll.)
ertragen, ertrug, ertragen-to bear, to stand
beeilen-to hurry, to hasten, to rush (refl.)
abhauen-to cut off (cutting weapon); to do a runner; to piss off
abschließen, schloss ab, abgeschlossen-to end, to complete; to shut off; to lock up; to conclude (a contract, deal)
enttäuschen-to disappoint
schwimmen, schwamm, geschwommen-to swim; to float
ergeben, ergab, ergeben-to produce; to surrender (refl.); to arise, result, turn out
bieten, bot, geboten-to offer; to bid; to arrise, to occur (of an opportunity) (refl.)
schmecken-to taste
riskieren-to risk
konzentrieren-to concentrate
übergeben, übergab, übergeben-to hand over; to vomit (refl.)
befreien-to free (make free)
starten-to start (car, airplane, etc); to start sth.
vernichten-to destroy; to ruin; to annihilate; to eradicate
wahren-to protect, to safeguard; to maintain, to preserve
spüren-to sense
betreffen, betraf, betroffen-to concern, to affect
antworten-to answer, to reply
ankommen, kam an, angekommen-to arrive; to depend (auf sth.)
begleiten-to accompany; to conduct, escort
akzeptieren-to accept
steigen, stieg, gestiegen-to ascend; to climb; to rise
stammen-to descend, originate, be derived
zuhören-to listen to so./sth. (with dative)
begegnen-to meet, encounter (with dative)
gucken-to look, to watch, to have a certain facial expression
brennen, brannte, gebrannt-to burn; to have a strong affection for; to induce pain
begraben, begrub, begraben-to bury
verbrechen, verbrach, verbrochen-to commit (a crime)
beruhigen-to calm
kochen-to boil (to heat a liquid); to boil sth.; to cook
bestellen-to summon; to order (e.g. food); to reserve
ruinieren-to ruin
kosten-to cost; to taste
besiegen-to defeat (in battle or contest)
klingeln-to ring (to produce the sound of a bell or a similar sound)
wagen-to venture, to dare; to risk, to jeopardise
untersuchen-to examine, to investigate
rausfinden, fand raus, rausgefunden-to figure out (coll.)
erfüllen-to fill (with sth.); to fulfill; to come true
zwingen, zwang, zwungen-to force; to compel
zurückkehren-to return
wechseln-to change, to exchange
herkommen, kam her, hergekommen-to come over, come here (towards the speaker); to come from
wirken-to work; to be effective; to take affect; to act
schnappen-to snap (with one's mouth); to catch; to nab (a criminal) (coll.)
aufstehen, stand auf, aufgestanden-to get up; to be open (e.g. a window, door)
anhalten, hielt an, angehalten-to stop (cease moving); to continue; to compel
streiten, stritt, gestritten-to argue; to fight; to quarrel
atmen-to breathe
erleben-to experience; to witness
beschließen, beschloss, beschlossen-to end, to close; to decide
drücken-to press; to push
genießen, genoss, genossen-to enjoy (an experience); to relish
beeindrucken-to impress so.
absehen, sah ab, abegesehen-to foresee; to overlook, to disregard
zusehen, sah zu, zugesehen-to watch; to see, to make sure (that sth. happens)
betrügen, betrog, betrogen-to cheat; to swindle; to defraud
heilen-to heal
unterschreiben, unterschrieb, unterschrieben-to sign (write one's signature)
erfinden, erfand, erfunden-to invent; to fabricate (sth. untrue); to find out
rauskommen, kam raus, rausgekommen-to get out; to make it big (with groß before verb)
ficken-to fuck
warnen-to warn
behaupten-to claim, maintain, assert
auffallen, fiel auf, aufgefallen-to stand out; to catch someone's eye (with dative)
rennen, rannte, gerannt-to race; to sprint; to run over someone (aux. with haben)
beten-to pray
treiben, trieb, getrieben-to propel; to put forth; to urge (figuratively); to fuck; to float; to sprout; to get up to
unterstützen-to support
loswerden, wurde los, losgeworden-to get rid of so./sth.
träumen-to dream
empfangen, empfing, empfangen-to receive; to greet; to conceive (biology)
wiedersehen, sah wieeder, wiedergesehen-to see again, to meet again
reisen-to travel
packen-to pack, to grab; to manage
erfreuen-to please; to enjoy (refl.)
bestätigen-to confirm, to corroborate
anfassen-to touch
greifen, griff, gegriffen-to grab; to seize; to reach; to capture
richten-to direct; to judge; to be directed ("auf" towards, "gegen" at)
erschrecken, erschrak, erschrocken-to be frightened; to frighten
verteidigen-to defend
probieren-to try; to taste; to sample
anziehen, zog an, angezogen-to get dressed; to put on; to dress so.; to attract; to pull
verarschen-to trick; to fool
anbieten, bot an, angeboten-to offer, to provide
wiederholen-to repeat
beibringen, brachte bei, beigebracht-to teach; to break (news, information) carefully to; to inflict
schneiden, schnitt, geschnitten-to cut; to prune
informieren-to inform
beantworten-to answer (a question)
hauen, haute, gehauen-to slash; to cut; to hit (coll.)
erschaffen, erschuf, erschaffen-to create; to produce; to make
bewahren-to keep, to preserve (to maintain the condition of)
schulden-to owe; to be due to
schenken-to give; to give as a present, to gift
überlassen, überließ, überlassen-to relinquish; to leave sth. in so.'s care
besitzen, besaß, besessen-to own, to possess; to have
durchmachen-to go through; to endure; to undergo; to finish; to stay up all night
wachsen, wuchs, gewachsen-to grow; to increase
verzeihen, verzieh, verziehen-to forgive; to pardon; to excuse
versagen-to fail: to refuse; to deny
reinlegen-to spoof (coll.)
spazieren-to stroll; to take a walk
bestrafen-to punish
ausruhen-to rest (refl.)
begeistern-to enthuse; to be enthusiastic (refl.)
einsperren-to lock up, to imprison
stinken, stank, gestunken-to stink
regeln-to regulate
anlügen, log an, angelogen-to lie to; to tell so. a lie
klären-to clarify
bescheißen, beschiss, beschissen-to deceive so.; to screw so.
berühren-to touch
scheißen, schiss, geschissen-to shit
verwandeln-to metamorphose; to transform; to turn sth. into sth.
verschwenden-to squander; to waste
riechen, roch, gerochen-to sniff; to reek; to tolerate so. (coll.)
reagieren-to react; to respond
bekämpfen-to fight against sth.
äußern-to utter; to say; to express
waschen, wusch, gewaschen-to wash
übersetzen-to translate
rausholen-to spring so. (from a trap, prison etc.); to spring sth. (suddenly); to whip it out
mitmachen-to take part
verwenden-to use
erscheinen, erschien, erschienen-to appear; to seem
anstellen-to queue (refl.); to employ so.; to get into mischief
rächen-to take revenge (refl.) ("an" so.)
zugeben, gab zu, zugegeben-to admit
reingehen, ging rein, reingegangen-to go in
verfluchen-to curse
üben-to practise
ausziehen, zog aus, ausgezogen-to take sth. off; to undress; to pull out; to move out
aktivieren-to activate; to enable
anschießen, schoss an, angeschossen-to shoot along; to shoot so.
achten-to respect; to regard so.; to pay attention to sth. (with "auf")
vermuten-to assume, suppose, suspect sth.
einstellen-to employ so.; to adjust; to cease
versauen-to mess sth. up; to butcher sth.; to cock sth. up
flehen-to beg; to entreat; to beseech
kennenlernen-to meet so.; to get to know so./sth.
identifizieren-to identify
fressen, fraß, gefressen-to eat (of an animal); to gorge; to guzzle
aufmachen-to open; to head/move off (refl.); to undo sth.
verabschieden-to disband; to see so. off; to say goodbye (refl.); to adopt (a law, etc.)
wetten-to bet
verzweifeln-to despair
auftauchen-to arise; to surface; to turn up
linken-to deceive so.; to con so.
überfallen, überfiel, überfallen-to attack; to raid (a bank); to invade (a country)
einfallen, fiel ein, eingefallen-to collapse; to come to mind
entschließen, entschloss, entschlossen-to decide (refl.);
liefern-to deliver sth.; to provide sth.; to furnish
begehen, beging, begangen-to commit, perpetrate (a crime, an offence)
leiten-to lead
nachsehen, sah nach, nachgesehen-to chech back; to peek; to look sth. up/over
aussuchen-to select, to choose, to pick
sammeln-to collect; to gather
anschauen-to look at; to behold
reiten, ritt, geritten-to ride; to ride on the back of so./sth.
lächeln-to smile
bereuen-to regret sth.; to rue sth.
berichten-to report; to indicate; to refer
präsentieren-to present; to introduce
verbergen, verbarg, verborgen-to conceal sth: to hide sth.
sparen-to save up; to conserve
verurteilen-to condemn; to sentence (law)
weitergehen, ging weiter, weitergegangen-to continue; to proceed; to keep moving
vermasseln-to screw up, to botch, to goof, to muddle
schweigen, scwieg, geschwiegen-to be silent; to remain silent
wenden-to turn sth.; to make a u-turn
explodieren-to explode
versetzen-to put, to move; to deal, to give (a blow, hit); to transfer (when to do with work)
verbrennen, verbrannte, verbrannt-to burn, to incinerate; to burn oneself; to scorch (miltary)
aufwachen-to wake up
einsetzen-to insert; to use; to appoint; to risk
zurückgehen, ging zurück, zurückgegangen-to go back; to decline
vermeiden, vermied, vermieden-to avoid
streichen, strich, gestrichen-to stroke; to cancel; to spread, to rub; to paint
befreunden-to befriend (refl.)
aussteigen, stieg aus, ausgestiegen-to exit; to get off
entspannen-to relax (refl.); to relieve pressure
abgeben, gab ab, abgegeben-to hand sth. in; to emit sth.; to deliver sth.; to cede sth.
beleidigen-to offend so., to insult so.
eingehen, ging ein, eingegangen-to shrink (textile); to wither/die (plants, animals); to assume sth.;
zurückbringen, brachte zurück, zurückgebracht-to return sth.; to restore
beteiligen-to take part ("an") sth. (refl); to consult so.
verabreden-to arrange; to make an appointment
bilden-to form; to educate oneself (refl.)
abnehmen, nahm ab, abegenommn-to decrease; to lose weight; to accept sth.; to pick up (of telephones)
verprügeln-to beat so. up; to wallop
verhandeln-to negotiate
leihen, lieh, geliehen-to lend; to borrow
verhalten, verhielt, verhalten-to behave (refl.); to act (refl.); to press (coll.)
telefonieren-to telephone
tauschen-to trade; to exchange, to swap
weglaufen, lief weg, weggelaufen-to run away
senden-to broadcast; to send
weggehen, ging weg, weggegangen-to go away, to leave
übertreiben, übertrieb, übertrieben-to exaggerate; to overdo
stöhnen-to moan, to groan
stürzen-to fall; to rush; to throw; to overturn; to overthrow sth.
trainieren-to train, to coach; to work out
studieren-to study; to go to universitty/college
benehmen, benahm, benommen-to behave (refl.)
malen-to paint
vergiften-to poison
gewöhnen (an)-to accustom oneself to sth. (refl.)
prüfen-to investigate; to check sth.; to consider
festhalten, hielt fest, festgehalten-to hold so./sth.; to retain sth.; to record sth.; to detain
bedrohen-to threaten; to menace
bedanken-to thank so. (refl.)
nerven-to annoy so.; to get on so.'s nerves
bereiten-to prepare sth. (meals, coffee, etc.); to give, to cause (pleasure, trouble, etc.)
opfern-to sacrifice
leeren-to empty
einschlafen, schlief ein, eingeschlafen-to fall asleep
verlaufen, verlief, verlaufen-to blend; to continue; to get lost (refl.); to go (well, poorly, etc.)
herrschen-to rule; to prevail, to control
anhören-to listen to so.
wecken-to wake, to wake up
aussetzen-to pause; to suspend sth.; to abandon so.; to expose oneself to sth. (refl.)
garantieren-to guarantee
füttern-to feed
blasen-to Blow